--- Page 67 ---
Get All HSE Resources at One Place (www.hsezip.com)
153. B: Heat is transferred between a human and the surrounding environment through means of:
(1) evaporation, (2) conduction, (3) radiation, and (4) convection. Heat is always transferred from
higher temperatures to lower temperatures. Too much heat dissipation can result in cold stress-
related conditions, and not enough dissipation can result in heat stress-related conditions.
154. A: MIL-STD-882B is regularly implemented across a wide array of industries for directing the
production of procedural guidance within the realm of system safety.
155. B: Air ventilation systems are usually responsible for a variety of functions within the
workplace. They facilitate the removal of carbon dioxide (CO )buildups, they remove odors, and
2
they regularly eliminate toxins especially through the use of built-in filtration units. They do not,
however, directly increase the concentration of indoor oxygen levels (it is accurate to assert,
however, that they may indirectly increase oxygen levels via their CO removal capability).
2
156. D: Tools, refuse articles (rags, empty cans, etc.), and lumber can all be significant tripping
hazards depending on the size, weight, balance, and frictional coefficients of the item(s). In addition,
uneven floor or ground surfaces, open file drawers, and electrical cables are also regularly
responsible for tripping incidents in the workplace. The most appropriate course(s) of action for
the CSP would be to immediately notify the responsible work parties in the area to remove,
relocate, and/or properly store the articles in question. The CSP should also then notify the area
manager in regard to these safety infractions and also recommend remedial safety training for
responsible staff members.
157. C: Calculations and assessments performed by insurance companies that evaluate company
loss-rate records for establishing worker compensation rates are conventionally known as
experience modifiers.
158. D: On behalf of the user and to protect against liabilities, system safety designs normally
allocate considerable detail to vital product facets such as proper-use protocols, maintenance,
hygiene, safeguards, and ergonomics.
159. A: The construction or modification phase during a facility development process should place
considerable emphasis on quality assurance and quality control. Any significant lapse in these areas
at this final stage of the process could potentially result in severe consequences.
160. C: In the realm of safety-basis evaluation, a design-basis accident that has a frequency
(probability) of occurrence in the range of 10–6 to 10–4 per year and potential associated
consequences in the range of 100 to 300 deaths will have a resulting overall risk range of 0.0001 to
0.03 deaths per year. This is derived given that risk = probability x consequences that an associated
range would result from grouping the lowest probability and consequence combination for the low
end, and that the highest probability and consequence combination for the high end.
Low end of risk range = 10–6 x 100 fatalities = 0.0001
High end of risk range = 10–4 x 300 fatalities = 0.03
161. D: Given that Bob and Bill both work in a loud processing area, Bob has partial hearing loss
and also speaks with a lisp, and Bill’s hearing is unimpaired, it is likely that the frequent
miscommunications are due to Bob’s deafness, Bob’s not speaking clearly, and/or the ongoing loud
background noise in the work area. Indeed, the communication issues may be predominately tied to
one, two, or possibly all three of these factors; however, there may potentially be even other factors
65
Copyright © Mometrix Media. You have been licensed one copy of this document for personal use only. Any other reproduction or redistribution is strictly prohibited. All rights reserved.

--- Page 68 ---
Get All HSE Resources at One Place (www.hsezip.com)
at play that may not be regularly accounted for (e.g., Bill may not have good listening skills or is
always preoccupied or Bob and/or Bill may not be good body language communicators, etc.). In
summary, there are too many potential causal variables in this case (several more of which may be
unknown) to be able to render a firm determination as to the predominant (i.e., most likely) reason
why there is so much miscommunication between these two individuals.
162. A: A yellow warning sign that shows a downward arrow intersecting with a worker’s hard hat
is likely depicting a potential (danger) for falling objects. If the sign were red colored, it would be
representing a very high danger of falling objects.
163. C: The law of safety progress states that an organization will undergo fiscal hardship if it
generates or disseminates a hazardous product and then ultimately neglects to resolve the
underlying issue(s) that is/are causing the hazard.
164. B: Americium-beryllium (Am-Be) neutron sources, and the like, are often used in nuclear
reactors and other systems to provide initial quantities of neutrons to help foster an eventual chain
reaction that leads to a state of criticality. The most accurate description of how an Am-Be source
generates its neutrons is via the employment of an (α, n) nuclear reaction. Americium is a prolific
alpha-emitting radionuclide, and beryllium is very susceptible to absorption of such particles (i.e., it
has a high alpha cross-section). When an alpha particle is absorbed by a beryllium atom, the
beryllium undergoes a nuclear reaction in which its nucleus moves into a higher energy state and
resultantly expels a neutron to regain stability.
165. C: The office warden is usually responsible for taking roll calls during a shelter in place or a
building evacuation. These roll calls help to ensure that all employees are accounted for during an
emergency situation.
166. B: If a rare event is at hand, such as a significant acid leak in a chemical processing plant, a
special safety procedure that covers this type of event should be made immediately available and
ultimately implemented for dealing with this type of transient or anomalous scenario.
167. C: According to Frederick Herzberg’s theory of behavior, a worker’s desired extrinsic
outcomes typically include facets such as job security, income, and safe and comfortable working
conditions.
168. A: According to statistical measures, workers who have habitual alcohol or drug problems
miss work (i.e., incur lost days) approximately 15 times more often than those who do not have
such problems. This statistic is especially compounded for those cases in which workers come to
work in conditions not fit for duty and must subsequently leave the premises.
169. D: A goniometer is typically utilized within the realm of ergonomics for measuring angles
associated with human joints (e.g., knees, elbows, wrists, and ankles).
170. C: A blood pressure reading of 171/79 along with a resting pulse rate of 103 would likely be
inferred by an attending physician as a high systolic (hypertension) reading, a normal diastolic
reading, and possible tachycardia (rapid pulse).
171. C: There are numerous mechanisms and/or design configurations that can be employed
within system components and machinery to create desired resistant forces that serve a functional
purpose. Such mechanisms and configurations may include springs, inertia, and viscous damping.
66
Copyright © Mometrix Media. You have been licensed one copy of this document for personal use only. Any other reproduction or redistribution is strictly prohibited. All rights reserved.

--- Page 69 ---
Get All HSE Resources at One Place (www.hsezip.com)
172. B: Decompression sickness can be significantly mitigated by preventing overexposure to high-
pressure environments and carefully and steadily employing rates of decompression.
173. A: A computer mouse or joystick is categorized as a continuous control mechanism. Light
switches, buttons, and computer keyboards, although control mechanisms, are not of the
continuous variety.
174. D: Within the realm of system design, the integration of multiple elements with overlapping
functions that permit the continuous normal (ongoing) operation of a given product in the case of
one (or more) elemental failure(s) is known as redundancy.
175. B: A system that automatically powers down all major electrical components if the ambient
temperature within the facility exceeds a certain predetermined threshold level (due to fire) is an
example of a fail-safe system.
176. A: The robustness of hazardous waste shipping containers and casks has been thoroughly
tested over the years primarily at U.S. national laboratories such as Sandia National Laboratory and
Los Alamos National Laboratory. Evaluation modes have included thermal (high temperature), high
impact, and drop testing.
177. C: The two federal agencies that are primarily responsible for regulating the placement,
storage, and amounts of combustible materials within industrial settings are the NFPA and OSHA.
178. B: A static analysis determination is made for a piece of piping that renders the following
results:
The overall compression force on the pipe ≈ 50 N.
According to laser-optic results, the pipe has not contracted (or altogether moved) by any
discernible amount.
Then a conclusion can be drawn that the pipe’s outward directional force should (also) be equal to
about 50 N given that the pipe has had no record of discernible movement. This conclusion is in
accordance with Newton’s Third Law as well as the statics-based fact that the sum of the forces in
all directions must be equal to zero if there is no movement by a subject object.
179. A: A negative safety margin value is theoretically correlated with a high risk of failure. A
failure would hypothetically be expected to occur before a system or component reaches its
predetermined design limit or load.
180. B: There are 10 individual OSHA regional offices presently in existence across the United
States. They are located in Boston, MA; New York City, NY; Philadelphia, PA; Atlanta, GA; Chicago,
IL; Dallas, TX; Kansas City, MO; Denver, CO; San Francisco, CA; and Seattle, WA.
181. A: There are several unique characteristics regarding regulation criteria of large-quantity
hazardous waste generators (LQGs). These include no designated limit of the quantity of HAZMAT
that is allowed to be stored at a specific time; the generation of > 1 kg of acute HAZMAT per month;
an allowed maximum storage time of 90 days or less for most wastes; and a generation rate of >
1,000 kg per month for ordinary waste classifications.
182. C: In a fault-tree analysis, the term or gate “XOR” represents a condition whereby an output
event occurs if exactly one input event occurs. Other terms or gates used in fault-tree analyses
include: “AND,” “OR,” “Inhibit,” “Voting-OR,” and “Priority-AND.”
67
Copyright © Mometrix Media. You have been licensed one copy of this document for personal use only. Any other reproduction or redistribution is strictly prohibited. All rights reserved.

--- Page 70 ---
Get All HSE Resources at One Place (www.hsezip.com)
183. D: Given that farming family injuries do not officially fall under the jurisdiction or auspices of
OSHA, it is not necessary for any regulatory agency to be notified. David, may, however, follow any
local county protocols for logging or tracking the incident if the associated agricultural cooperative
agreement so requires it. Otherwise, no notifications should be made to any organization.
184. B: Per OSHA’s 29 CFR 1910.147, Control of Hazardous Energy, a hot tap is defined as a
maintenance or servicing procedure that entails pressurized welding operations for installing
connections or other support equipment.
185. C: An injury to the gonads would be categorized as a privacy case on an OSHA 300 form
whereby the employee’s name is not ultimately recorded. Other scenarios that could qualify as
privacy cases include a mental illness or condition, an injury or illness resulting from a sexual
assault, HIV, TB, hepatitis, and potentially contaminated needle-stick injuries.
186. B: Most portable fire extinguishers must be hydrostatically tested once every 5 years. There
are certain types of extinguishers (e.g., dry chemical or steel shell, halon, and dry powder),
however, that need only be hydrostatically tested once every 12 years.
187. D: A qualitative fit test for a respirator is conventionally defined by a pass-or-fail evaluation to
assess the level of fit adequacy based on a wearer’s response to a testing agent. In contrast, a
quantitative fit test is typically defined as an assessment to determine the suitability of a respirator
by measuring the amount of leakage into the device.
188. C: A turtle suit (or a water-armor protective suit) is a form of PPE that is often worn to protect
against the hazards of high-pressure water blasting. The suit adequately protects the legs, arms,
and chest from glancing water blows for pressures up to 40,000 psi.
189. D: An employee who is regularly subjected to several potential hazards, including strong
inorganic acids (e.g., hydrochloric, hydrofluoric, or nitric), excessively loud noise (e.g., > 125 dB,
unprotected), and falling objects should be required to adhere to the following PPE regimen in the
performance of his or her regular daily activities: coveralls, safety goggles, earplugs and earmuffs,
butyl rubber gloves, and a standard hard hat that can accommodate earmuffs.
Coveralls should be worn at all times to help protect from acid splashes to the torso or limbs; safety
goggles should be worn at all times to protect the eyes from acid splashes; and earplugs and
earmuffs should be worn due to double protection being required to lower noise levels down to
below 8-hr TWA hazardous thresholds. According to ANSI guidance, gloves made of butyl rubber
are usually best suited for protecting workers from strong, inorganic acids (e.g., hydrochloric,
hydrofluoric, and nitric); and a hard hat (which can accommodate earmuffs worn inside) should
always be worn to protect the head against falling objects.
190. C: Ground-fault circuit interrupters (GFCIs) are normally set at about 5 mA to adequately
protect workers from electrocution scenarios. The GFCI works by detecting potential leakage
current (a ground fault) in a circuit and then ultimately switches off the current in the circuit. This
leakage detection is usually via an exposed person who is just beginning to be shocked; once the
threshold of 5 mA leakage (loss) is attained, the GFCI switches off the circuit’s current in entirety.
191. D: There are several case scenarios that could be categorized as exempt from workers’
compensation coverage. These may include such instances as an individual who purposefully elect
not to be covered; an individual employed for fewer than 20 consecutive workdays within an
employer’s private home; an individual performing services in return for nonmonetary
68
Copyright © Mometrix Media. You have been licensed one copy of this document for personal use only. Any other reproduction or redistribution is strictly prohibited. All rights reserved.

--- Page 71 ---
Get All HSE Resources at One Place (www.hsezip.com)
compensation (e.g., aid or sustenance) provided by a religious organization or charity; or any
person directly employed in agriculture.
192. B: According to Abraham Maslow’s Hierarchy of Needs, personal facets such as creativity,
problem solving, morality, spontaneity, and lack of prejudice all fall under the human need of self-
actualization.
193. C: A permissive democrat-type leadership personality typically permits employees to
contribute to decision-making processes and affords subordinates a considerable degree of latitude
in carrying out their tasks. Other types of leadership personalities include permissive autocrat
(semi-liberal style), directive democrat (semi-liberal style), and directive autocrat (prototypical
micromanagement style).
194. D: The Epidemiological Theory of Accident Causation asserts that accidents can, in large part,
be caused or prevented by the manner in which situational characteristics interplay with
predispositional characteristics. Situational characteristics essentially depict the current state of
affairs that workers are engaged in at a particular juncture, whereas predispositional
characteristics are those that essentially depict the emotional states and moods of their colleagues.
195. C: The multilinear events sequencing (MES) method usually employs a time line to illustrate
the sequence of events or occurrences that contributed to or was the direct cause of an event.
196. C: Retention rate efficiencies vary greatly in humans depending upon what mode of teaching
or training is employed for a set of material. Studies have repeatedly shown that teaching or
instructing others typically results in the highest material retention efficiency rates by a
considerable margin. Employing discussion groups, utilizing demonstrations, and audiovisual
training methods have also shown to be effective tools for yielding high retention but not as high as
that attained through the teaching or training of others.
197. D: An extremely dangerous shortcut that is all too often taken with pneumatic nail guns and
hammers is the taping or fastening down of triggers and switches to attain automatic (effortless),
repeated actuation of such tools. Numerous puncture accidents have occurred, particularly in the
construction industry, due to this hazardous tactic.
198. A: Oxygen cylinders in storage shall be separated from fuel gas cylinders (or combustible
materials) by a minimum distance of 20 ft or by a noncombustible barrier at least 5 ft in height that
has a fire-resistance rating of at least 1.5 hrs.
199. B: For a worker to be permissibly located on a moving (mobile) scaffold that has a base width
of 4 ft, the minimum required height for that scaffold must be at least 8 ft. OSHA requires at least a
2:1 height-to-base ratio for mobile scaffolds.
200. C: A hard hat’s safety zone is defined as the space or clearance between the hat’s shell and its
suspension. The typical minimum recommended measurement for this space or clearance is 1 in.
Many hard hat manufacturers, however, recommend a space of 1.25 in for additional safety margin.
69
Copyright © Mometrix Media. You have been licensed one copy of this document for personal use only. Any other reproduction or redistribution is strictly prohibited. All rights reserved.

