--- Page 3 ---
Get All HSE Resources at One Place (www.hsezip.com)
CSP Practice Test
1. Within the realm of statistics, which of the following is TRUE with regard to the
fundamental counting principle?
a. When the principle is applied for a given sample, the standard deviation is always equal to
the variance.
b. The order or position of an occurrence always affects the overall probabilistic outcome of
an entire event.
c. The number of possible permutations is always greater than the possible number of
combinations.
d. The number of possible permutations is always less than the possible number of
combinations.
2. Which of the following sets of colors is associated with the NFPA 704 Diamond System for
the labeling of hazardous materials?
a. Magenta, green, black, gold
b. Blue, green, orange, white
c. Red, yellow, green, black
d. Yellow, blue, red, white
3. A company is developing a new pharmaceutical product to help counteract the effects of
mercury poisoning. Before it comes to market, however, the company must first seek
approval by which of the following U.S. government agencies?
a. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS)
b. U.S. National Institute for Drug Abuse (NIDA)
c. U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC)
d. U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
4. Which of the following is NOT typically categorized as a “class” of hazard within an
industrial or process setting?
a. First-responder conveyance
b. Falling of loads
c. Handling of materials
d. Materials being in motion
5. If an injured worker wishes to file litigation against a company he or she feels is
responsible for his or her maladies, which of the following attorneys should he or she most
likely consult?
a. Compensatory tort
b. Criminal
c. Civil
d. OSHA attorney-general delegate
6. What are the two different categories of workers’ compensation laws?
a. Antecedent and post-factual
b. Compulsory and elective
c. Standard and closure
d. Transitional and disability
1
Copyright © Mometrix Media. You have been licensed one copy of this document for personal use only. Any other reproduction or redistribution is strictly prohibited. All rights reserved.

--- Page 4 ---
Get All HSE Resources at One Place (www.hsezip.com)
7. Which of the following is NOT typically regarded as a primary safety hazard associated
with the use of powered vehicles in a work area?
a. Potential carbon monoxide overexposure
b. Exceeding load limits
c. Blind spots
d. Operator physical overexertion
8. What is the conventional definition of a blasting agent?
a. A material that demonstrates adequate stability in a stand-alone condition yet possesses
enough exothermic potential to prompt an explosion when initiated
b. A material, such as TNT, designed to detonate upon a threshold catalyst
c. A material designed to explode upon mechanical impact
d. Any solid or liquid substance that will easily ignite above standard temperature and
pressure (STP) conditions
9. Which of the following is NOT a type of conveyor mechanism that is primarily used for
transporting bulk products or materials within an industrial setting?
a. Belts
b. Buckets
c. Winches
d. Rollers
10. If a very large construction company experiences 369 work-related deaths, worldwide,
over a recent 10-year span, about what number of them would likely be attributable to falls?
a. 30
b. 80
c. 150
d. 210
11. What device is commonly used in industrial settings to measure potentially hazardous
noise levels?
a. An acoustics meter
b. A noise dosimeter
c. An audiometer
d. A gain-differential inductance meter
12. Which of the following is NOT a typical injury or illness-related metric that is regularly
tracked by federal agencies?
a. Frequency of work-related retaliation events
b. Frequency of work-related deaths
c. Frequency of job transfers
d. Frequency of restricted duty
13. Which of the following terms is typically NOT associated with the domain of gas or vapor
sampling?
a. Colorimetry
b. Chromatograph
c. Centrifugal separation
d. Grab sample
2
Copyright © Mometrix Media. You have been licensed one copy of this document for personal use only. Any other reproduction or redistribution is strictly prohibited. All rights reserved.

--- Page 5 ---
Get All HSE Resources at One Place (www.hsezip.com)
14. Which of the following is NOT inclusive of the OSHA Classification System for
Occupational Illnesses and Conditions?
a. Respiratory-related disorders or conditions
b. Radiation-related disorders or conditions
c. Skin-related disorders or conditions
d. Blunt trauma-related disorders or conditions
15. U.S. citizen employees who live and work in the United States have a legal right to
___________ certain records under their name.
a. inspect
b. replace
c. purge
d. transfer
16. A CSP and an industrial hygienist determine that the intensity of a certain physical
parameter or phenomenon within a work area measures two footlamberts. Which of the
following is being measured?
a. Gamma radiation
b. Ultraviolet radiation
c. Microwaves
d. Visible light
17. To counteract high-pressure environments (e.g., that seen during deep underwater
diving), which of the following tactics is typically implemented to counteract the potential
effects of nitrogen narcosis?
a. Replacing nitrogen with inert surrogate gases, such as helium
b. Increasing supplied-air oxygen levels by 0.5 percent for every 10 ft of depth
c. Requiring an ascension rate of at least 10 ft per min
d. Limiting underwater excursions to less than 1 hr for depths greater than 50 ft
18. Per the U.S. Clean Air Act, which of the following outdoor concentration readings would
be considered a violation of National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS)?
a. 0.5 ppm of carbon monoxide over an 8-hr period
b. 0.05 ppm of ozone over an 8-hr period
c. 1.0 μg/m3 of lead over a 3-month period
d. 10 ppb of sulfur dioxide over a 1-hr period
19. Which of the following functional-notation representations would depict a discount
factor for a present dollar value given a future value at a 3 percent annual interest rate over
7 years?
a. (F|P, 7, 3%)
b. (P|F, 3%, 7)
c. (P|F, 7, 3%)
d. (F|P, 3%, 7)
3
Copyright © Mometrix Media. You have been licensed one copy of this document for personal use only. Any other reproduction or redistribution is strictly prohibited. All rights reserved.

--- Page 6 ---
Get All HSE Resources at One Place (www.hsezip.com)
20. What is a typical three-step process that should always be employed in industrial
settings if there has been a hazardous material(s) spill?
a. Inspection, notification, cleanup
b. Isolation, mitigation, remediation
c. Evacuation, notification, remediation
d. Safety, containment, notification
21. Acquired data from two distinct and separate variables is known as which of the
following?
a. Bimodal data
b. Bivariate data
c. Tandem-statistical corollaries
d. Quadratic-bipolar data
22. In this data set (3, 7, 9, 12, 26, 32, 45, 58), which of the following is the mode?
a. 19
b. 24
c. None
d. 0
23. If the illustration shown here represents a standard normal distribution, approximately
what percent of the total area below the curve is comprised of [(–2sd < x < –sd) + (0 < x <
sd)]?
a. 44 percent
b. 48 percent
c. 52 percent
d. 56 percent
24. Which of the following U.S. federal agencies is responsible for distributing statistical
information pertaining to job-related injuries and illnesses?
a. U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration
b. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
c. U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics
d. U.S. National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health
4
Copyright © Mometrix Media. You have been licensed one copy of this document for personal use only. Any other reproduction or redistribution is strictly prohibited. All rights reserved.

--- Page 7 ---
Get All HSE Resources at One Place (www.hsezip.com)
25. An ex-employee is looking to pursue legal action against his or her company for alleged
wrongdoing. The company, in turn, is planning on defending itself based upon the fellow-
servant rule. Which of the following grievance subject areas is the employee pursuing legal
action for?
a. Wrongful termination
b. On-the-job injury
c. Racial discrimination
d. Sexual harassment
26. Which agency or organization is typically responsible for setting the rate premiums that
employers will pay for workers’ compensation insurance?
a. U.S. Department of Commerce
b. U.S. Department of Labor
c. National Council on Compensation Insurance
d. National Commission on Banking and Insurance Fiscal Regulation
27. Sound octaves are conventionally characterized by _______________ with sequential octaves
normally differing by a factor of _______________.
a. wavelength, 10
b. pitch, 100
c. frequency, 2
d. tone, 10
28. If a pregnant employee is concerned about her child being exposed to potential
teratogenic sources, which of the following should she avoid?
a. Microwave radiation
b. PCBs
c. Coffee
d. Acetic acid
29. Which of the following is typically NOT a potential mode of particulate contamination?
a. Aerosols
b. Gases
c. Mists
d. Fumes
30. Which of the following is usually NOT regarded as a hazard typically related to the use of
high-pressure receptacles and containers?
a. Pressures exceeding design safety levels
b. Higher fire risks due to enhanced oxygen levels in certain containers
c. Container failure due to corrosion
d. Use of containers without always venting excess buildup
31. A monitoring system should be employed in tandem with a(n) _______________ system to
alert workforces of potentially hazardous conditions being at hand.
a. warning
b. emergency response
c. shutdown
d. actuator
5
Copyright © Mometrix Media. You have been licensed one copy of this document for personal use only. Any other reproduction or redistribution is strictly prohibited. All rights reserved.

--- Page 8 ---
Get All HSE Resources at One Place (www.hsezip.com)
32. Which of the following is NOT a typical telltale sign that a chemical reaction may be
ensuing as the result of a spill?
a. Emission of smoke or vapor
b. Evaporation or sublimation
c. Bubble formation
d. Unusual odors
33. What is a financial covenant typically between an individual (e.g., an investor) and a
corporate or government body that guarantees to repay an investment, plus accrued
interest, at a predesignated time is known as?
a. A bond
b. A certificate of deposit
c. An equity agreement
d. A margin call
34. Which of the following graphical tools is typically regarded as the MOST useful for clearly
illustrating data groups that may fall within a particular value range?
a. Histogram
b. Bar graph
c. Stem-and-leaf plot
d. Box-and-whisker plot
35. Which of the following statistical parameters is NOT utilized if one wishes to calculate a
measure of dispersion for a given data set?
a. Variance
b. Standard deviation
c. Range
d. Median
36. What is the approximate standard deviation (σ) for the following “entire population”
data set?
(2, 7, 11, 24, 44, 62, 79, 81, 105, 120, 139, 162)
a. 39
b. 52
d. 54
d. 70
37. Which of the following is NOT a typical shape or characterization of a frequency curve?
a. Multimodal
b. Skewed
c. J-shaped
d. Step functional
38. If a population of 100,000 people incurred an “LD50” exposure to radiation or chemicals,
approximately how many acute deaths in that population would be expected?
a. 0
b. 2,000
c. 50,000
d. 100,000
6
Copyright © Mometrix Media. You have been licensed one copy of this document for personal use only. Any other reproduction or redistribution is strictly prohibited. All rights reserved.

--- Page 9 ---
Get All HSE Resources at One Place (www.hsezip.com)
39. Which of the following is a detailed and systematic process to evaluate potential risks
associated with the design and operation of a multifaceted, complex technology?
a. Probabilistic risk assessment
b. Failure modes and effects analysis
c. Hazards assessment
d. Documented safety analysis
40. A group of individuals meets within an organization to discuss several potential tools
that may be used for assessing a wide range of workplace system hazards. One of the
individuals, in particular, insists that the best tool to employ for such a purpose is a
“simultaneous, timed-events plotting analysis” and has successfully utilized them
throughout his or her career. What is the MOST likely area of expertise of this individual?
a. Root-cause analysis
b. Probabilistic risk assessment
c. Industrial engineering
d. Safety engineering
41. Within the specific quality assurance domains of audits and inspections, what does the
acronym CAQ typically stand for?
a. Certification of Absolute Qualification
b. Condition Adverse to Quality
c. Codified Audit Query
d. Correction to Annotated Quantity
42. An individual who is employed by the U.S. Department of Defense has recently been
granted a “secret” level security clearance. Per U.S. NISPOM protocols, which of the following
document cover color combinations would the employee be allowed to access?
a. Brown, orange, red
b. Orange, amber, green
c. Red, green, blue
d. Blue, gray, green
43. A craft employee who was not paying attention while working with a circular saw lost
two fingers in an accident. Corporate Health and Safety Management reported the accident
to OSHA approximately 40 hours after the incident. According to OSHA 29 CFR 1904.39, the
company is
a. in violation of the allowable reporting time frame.
b. in compliance with the allowable reporting time frame.
c. in the probation zone of the allowable reporting time frame.
d. not required to file an OSHA report but is instead required to file with the U.S. Department
of Labor.
44. In a total workforce of 200 people (who each work 2,000 hours over a calendar year), if
there are 10 total cases of missed workdays, restricted duty, or transfer due to work-related
injuries over that calendar year, what is the resulting DART rate?
a. 10
b. 5
c. 20
d. 2
7
Copyright © Mometrix Media. You have been licensed one copy of this document for personal use only. Any other reproduction or redistribution is strictly prohibited. All rights reserved.

--- Page 10 ---
Get All HSE Resources at One Place (www.hsezip.com)
45. A bar graph most closely resembles which of the following illustrative tools?
a. A box-and-whiskers graph
b. A stem-and-leaf plot
c. A histogram
d. A rectangular-regression plot
46. A job hazard analysis is performed for an upcoming task that is to take place within a
very high radiation area. What type of instrumentation would be most appropriate for use
by health physicists (or rad-techs) for determining actual radiation levels of the area before
workers enter to perform their assigned task?
a. A teletector
b. A Geiger counter
c. A multichannel analyzer
d. A thermoluminescent dosimeter (TLD)
47. A “fishbone diagram” is also known as which of the following?
a. A failure modes and effects analysis
b. An event tree study
c. A hazard and operability study
d. A cause-and-effect analysis
48. The 50th percentile value of a normal distribution is also always denoted as which of the
following?
a. Mean
b. Median
c. Mode
d. The bisecting point
49. Which of the following audit-finding classifications is usually considered the most
serious?
a. Conditions adverse to quality
b. Corrective action issue
c. Near miss
d. Tier-1 infraction
50. Per OSHA directive, VPP Merit-status employers are expected to commit to the
pursuance of star status within a period of how many years?
a. 1
b. 2
c. 3
d. 4
51. A waste storage receptacle containing sulfuric acid from used batteries should have
which of the following waste code designation numbers?
a. D-001
b. D-002
c. D-003
d. D-004
8
Copyright © Mometrix Media. You have been licensed one copy of this document for personal use only. Any other reproduction or redistribution is strictly prohibited. All rights reserved.

